# synthetix-faq-bot
Implementation of Discord bot for answering synthetix related questions.  

The bot has a categorized predefined [list](#list-of-questions-currently-available) of most frequent questions.  
    
It offers search functionality to users in DM.  

When asked a question in DM, the bot will try to find the best possible match from the known questions.  

This is the list of [commands](#known-dm-commands) available in DM with the bot.

In public channels the bot is only meant to answer predefined questions, with the command **!FAQ question *questionNumber***, e.g. **!FAQ question 7**.  
It can also use [aliases](#list-of-aliases-currently-available) for a question to post an answer in public channel, e.g. **!FAQ gas price**.    

The answers are built using Discord [Embeds](https://discordjs.guide/popular-topics/embeds.html) for pretty print, embedding links and adding images.

# Usage in channels
The bot is triggered by the prefix **!faq** in channels.  
The bot can answer predefined questions either by their question number of by alias.  
Examples:  
**!faq question 1**  
**!faq gas price**  

The list of all [questions](#list-of-questions-currently-available).  
The list of all [aliases](#list-of-aliases-currently-available).  
You can also get the latest aliases from the bot by sending him a DM **aliases**

# Usage in direct messaging

The bot is intended to be used mainly in direct messaging.
It has a list of predefined commands which can be browsed if **help** message is sent to the bot.

Additonally to known commands, the bot **can be asked a custom question (detected by a question mark at the end of the message)**. It will search for best possible match in the list of known questions.

## Known DM commands

**help**  
Displays the list of known commands


**list**  
Lists all known questions

**categories**  
Lists all categories of known questions


**category categoryName**  
List all known questions for a given category name, e.g. **category Staking&Minting**

**question questionNumber**  
Shows the answer to the question defined by its number, e.g. **question 7**

**search searchTerm**  
Search all known questions by given search term, e.g. **search SNX price**

**aliases**  
Lists all known aliases

**Or Ask the bot any question and it will try its' best to find a match from the known questions**

**subscribe gas safeGasPrice**  
Subscribe to the bot so it will inform you if the safe gas price fall bellow the given safeGasPrice threshold, e.g. **subscribe gas 70**  


# List of questions currently available
To get the answer to a predefined question send the bot the message **question X**  
**X** being the question number, e.g. **question 21**

1  
I claimed my SNX staking rewards but I don't see them in my wallet?  
2  
How can I check exactly how many of my SNX are unlocked?  
3  
I previously locked my SNX to mint sUSD. How can I unlock my SNX?  
4  
How can I cash out my Synth gains for ETH?  
5  
How can I unlock/vest my escrowed tokens from the HAV token sale?  
6  
My wallet says I have havvens (HAV) but no SNX?  
7  
What is the current gas price?  
8  
What is the current sUSD price?  
9  
What is the current SNX price?  
10  
How to delegate claiming of SNX Rewards?  
11  
Why does my total sUSD debt fluctuate over time?  
12  
How to claim Synth Exchange Rewards without Mintr, directly using the smart contract?  
13  
How can I earn Synth exchange rewards?  
14  
How do I increase my C-Ratio (Collateralization Ratio)?  
15  
How can I claim my SNX Staking Rewards?  
16  
Now that I've minted sUSD, what can I do with it?  
17  
How can I receive SNX staking rewards?  
18  
Do I need to register or open a trading account to use Synthetix.Exchange?  
19  
How can I see how many fees were generated by a trade?  
20  
How can I make a trade on Synthetix.Exchange?  
21  
Why are my transactions failing?  
22  
Why am I blocked from claiming rewards?  
23  
Why are Synthetix transactions so expensive?  
24  
I don't have MetaMask, Trezor, Ledger, or Coinbase Wallet. How can I use the Synthetix dApps?  
25  
Why are transactions taking so long to process?  
26  
Why did I get a less synths on trade?   
27  
I am not able to burn my sUSD because the transaction keeps failing.  
28  
How to interact with a Synthetix contract using Metamask Mobile Wallet (Android/IOS)?  
29  
How often are prices updated? And where is the price feed/oracle coming from?  
30  
How can I see all of the Synths I own?  
31  
Where can I find a list of all the contracts?  
32  
Why is there a minimum deposit of 50 sUSD into the Depot?  
33  
What's the minimum amount of SNX to stake?  
34  
Where do Synth price feeds come from?  
35  
Why is it important to incentivise people to create a Synth liquidity pool?  
36  
Why aren't my SNX tokens showing up in Etherscan (or another platform)  
37  
Why does the number of my staked SNX fluctuate?  
38  
What is Curve Stablecoin Pool?  
39  
What are the rules for transferring SNX or synths?  
40  
What are SIPs & SCCPs?  
41  
What are inverse synths (iSynths)?  
42  
What is SNX inflation schedule?  
43  
Is SNX Liquid?  
44  
What is Discord Tip Bot  
45  
Why Is Gas So High  
46  
how can I use my sUSD?  
47  
What is layer 2?  
48  
What are chainlink oracles?  
49  
Can I use ether as collateral?  
50  
How to Trade?  
51  
How do I cancel a pending or stuck transaction?  
52  
wen moon?  
53  
wen six dolla?  
54  
What is the synthetix roadmap?  
55  
What is the degen list?  



# List of aliases currently available
Use them in channels with **!faq alias**, e.g. **!faq gas price**.  
To get a list of all aliases you can send him a DM with **aliases**

* Question 7: What is the current gas price?  
!faq gas price  
!faq gas  
* Question 8: What is the current sUSD price?  
!faq peg  
Question 9: What is the current SNX price?  
!faq snx price  
!faq snx  
* Question 3: I previously locked my SNX to mint sUSD. How can I unlock my SNX?  
!faq unlock snx  
!faq snx unlock  
* Question 6: My wallet says I have havvens (HAV) but no SNX?  
!faq havven  
* Question 42: What is SNX inflation schedule?  
!faq inflation  
Question 15: How can I claim my SNX Staking Rewards?  
!faq claim snx rewards  
* Question 23: Why are Synthetix transactions so expensive?  
!faq expensive transactions  
* Question 41: What are inverse synths (iSynths)?  
!faq inverse synths  
!faq iSynths  
* Question 11: Why does my total sUSD debt fluctuate over time?  
!faq failing transactions  
!faq debt fluctuation  
* Question 26: Why did I get a less synths on trade?  
!faq fee reclamation  
* Question 33: What's the minimum amount of SNX to stake?  
!faq minimum stake  
* Question 45: Why Is Gas So High?  
!faq high gas  
!faq gasshole  
* Question 49: Can I use ether as collateral?  
!faq eth collateral  
* Question 51: How do I cancel a pending or stuck transaction?  
!faq stuck transaction  
!faq pending transaction  
* Question 40: What are SIPs & SCCPs?  
!faq sip  
!faq sccp  
* Question 31: Where can I find a list of all the contracts?  
!faq contracts  
* Question 22: Why am I blocked from claiming rewards?  
!faq claiming blocked  
* Question 10: How to delegate claiming of SNX Rewards?  
!faq delegate claiming  
* Question 37: Why does the number of my staked SNX fluctuate?  
!faq snx staked fluctuation  
* Question 54: What is the synthetix roadmap?  
!faq roadmap  
* Question 47: What is layer 2?  
!faq l2  


# How to add a new question&answer?
If you find a question missing, please submit it via pull request keeping in mind the following:

1. Add the question itself to the questions folder with its dedicated file with next available number e.g. 60.txt  
2. Add the question answer in JSON format to the answers folder with the same number, e.g. 60.json. The JSON format corresponds to Discord [Embeds](https://discordjs.guide/popular-topics/embeds.html) to support rich text, images and embedded links.  
3. Optionally categorize the question to make it findable by category in categories/categories.json file. If you strongly believe the question needs a dedicated category, feel free to add a new one.  
4. If you want the new question to be available via one or more aliases, add it to the file categories/aliases.json  
5. If the question should have an image, add the image to images folder and reference it from the answer json. Only one image per reply is supported with Discord Embeds.
